  NEW DELHI: The industry on Monday said the steep 23.9 per cent contraction in the GDP in April-June was on expected lines reflecting the "stalling of economic activities" due to the lockdown imposed in response to coronavirus pandemic. The industry, however, said it anticipates the economy to stage a gradual recovery in the coming quarters on account of reforms, the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package and measures taken by the Reserve Bank. India's GDP shrank steeply by 23.9 per cent in the April-June period as the coronavirus lockdowns battered an already slowing economy. Agriculture was the only outlier as all other sectors, including manufacturing, construction and services, suffered steep declines. CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said the large contraction in the first quarter GDP print at 23.9 per cent was widely expected, and it reflects the wide-spread stalling of economic activities due to the stringent lockdown in response to the pandemic. "Even as the first half of the current fiscal is expected to remain weak, we can expect a recovery in the second half led by supportive fiscal and monetary policies," Banerjee said. In this context, he said, the localised lockdowns being imposed by state and district administrations may be avoided so that the economic recovery can be kept on track. "Going forward, we are anticipating contractions -though a bit better in numbers- in the July- September quarter and the October- December quarter as well. However, in the quarters post that, we anticipate some amount of recovery to take place," Assocham president Niranjan Hiranandani said. The country would witness even a recovered growth curve in the quarters after that due to a series of measures, he stated. “The Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package, the measures taken by the Reserve Bank of India and the administrative reforms would show a positive outcome in the economy,” he said. PHDCCI President D K Aggarwal said the reforms undertaken by the government will bring the economy back on its growth path sooner than later. India's economy had grown by 5.2 per cent in the same quarter of last fiscal, as per the data released by the National Statistical Office.  NEW DELHI: Vidyamandir Classes on Tuesday said it has started online classes under a Rapid Success Programme for Class 12 pass students preparing for IIT Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET).


This would be the most rigorous, success-oriented programme for students preparing for JEE/NEET 2021 in the country, VMC said, adding that students of this course will be entitled to a flat 50 per cent COVID Support scholarship.

Due to the prevailing uncertainty triggered by Covid-19 crises, this course has a flexible format which allows an exit of the students who would crack NEET/IIT-JEE exams in September-2020 with a refund of the balance course fee and the rest can continue the preparation for entrance exams of 2021, the institute said.

VMC said it has conceptualised this nine-month course to emphasise on a focused approach of propelling students to score higher grades within the reduced time frame.

During the entire period of this course, 20+ hours of course delivery is targeted every week from teachers in India (including VMC Founders) who have a good track record of excellent results in the past three decades.

"This special course is designed for those students who are aiming to score higher marks in their NEET and IITJEE exam. During this unpredictable situation, it is hard to define what is waiting for them in the future," Brij Mohan Gupta, Founder, Vidyamandir Classes, said in a statement.

"So, this course will work as a backup plan for 12th pass students who can continue preparation for the 2021 entrance examination and also can exit from the course if they get selected in NEET/IITJEE 2020. We are confident of a very successful outcome for students through the Rapid Success Courses," he said.

Students will also receive specially designed study material with high focus on the most important concepts and practice questions.

These courses have been designed for helping droppers to prepare strategically within a short period of time.

"We believe students will definitely score higher marks if they follow our study material and practice sessions meticulously," Gupta said.

Students will be further inspired to appear for more mock tests and to attend practice sessions in order to boost up their confidence.

Students who wish to opt for a combination of Crash Course and Rapid Success course would get additional savings on the package.

Students who are part of VMC's Fast Track Success programme (Crash Course for JEE/ NEET 2020) can also take admission in Rapid Success Program for September batch, later this year, VMC said, adding that students of current Rapid course can also upgrade to the regular classroom programme anytime.



           NEW DELHI: There has been a surge in hiring for remote jobs in India in the last few months and work-from-home jobs witnessed a three-fold jump as compared to pre-Covid levels, a new report said on Tuesday.


Remote working has seen many employees enjoy greater flexibility and control over their personal and professional lives including saving on commute time. As a result, the work-from-home jobs have witnessed a seven-fold growth in applications in the last few months as compared to pre-Covid times.

"Hiring for remote jobs too has seen a robust growth and has increased by three times as compared to pre-Covid levels this year," according to the report by leading job portal Naukri.com.

Even the percentage contribution of WFH jobs has gone up four-fold in 2020 versus 2019 as a result of the global pandemic.

The keyword 'Work-From-Home' has been one of the top three most searched keywords by jobseekers in the last five months on Naukri.com platform.

"It's also interesting to note that traditional, office-based or on-ground roles such as sales/ business development and customer care agents are now being offered with WFH options," said Pawan Goyal, Chief Business Officer at Naukri.com.

Around half of remote job postings are from the BPO/ITES sector, resulting in robust growth of WFH jobs from the industry. IT-software, education/teaching and internet/e-commerce contribute to another quarter of work-from-home jobs.

"The WFH jobs have also emerged in unlikely sectors such as publishing, BFSI and education/teaching that have conventionally required the physical presence of the employee. However, the most impacted industries like travel and staffing continue to decline in hiring even in remote jobs," the report said.

"The WFH trend was also a recurring topic discussed in webinars, and saw many queries directed to industry experts from jobseekers on remote working jobs," the report added.


          